# Bash tools

Most of scripts uses custom read method, which allows user to clearly write desired values. See scripts in [_inc/](_inc/) directory.


---

# Helpers

## GIT tools (simplify often used commands)
See them in [git/](git/) directory.
- simplify push and merge, with `bash git-push-n-merge.sh` script
- rename branch on local and remote, with `bash git-rename-branch.sh` script
- rename tag on local and remote, with `bash git-tag-rename.sh` script
- synchronize local from remote, like `git pull` on multiple branches, with `bash git-sync.sh` script
- create tag with annotation, with `bash git-tag-create.sh` script


## Docker and Docksal
See them in [docker/](docker/) directory.
- Connect to Docker container terminal by name with `bash docker-bash.sh <name>` script. Will start container if stopped.
- Read logs from Docker container by name with `bash docker-logs.sh <name>` script. Will start container if stopped.
- Exec command on Docker container with `bash docker-exec.sh <command>` script. Preserve paths.
- Simplify Docksal configuration creation with `bash docksal-warmup.sh` script.


## Database tools
See them in [databases/](databases/) directory.
- MongoDB dump (also via proxy)
- MySQL dump (also via proxy)


## SSL tools
See them in [ssl/](ssl/) directory.
- check certificate
- generate a certificate with certbot


## Web development tools
See them in [web_development_tools/](web_development_tools/) directory.
- URL diff, with `bash url-diff.sh` script
- Facebook cache clear, with `bash facebook-clear-cache.sh` script
- redirects check, with `bash redirects-check.sh` script
- REST client, with `bash rest-request.sh` script


## Symfony
See them in [symfony/](symfony/) directory.


## Wordpress
See command line updater in [wordpress/](wordpress/) directory.


---

# Fun zone

## OSM map to PNG
Download area (by coordinates) with script `bash osm-map-download.sh` and save to PNG image.
See it in [www_tools/](www_tools/) directory.

## netcatchat
Chat with collegues via netcat with `bash netcatchat.sh`. It contains a lot of shorcuts and saves history.


## beeper (piano music player)
Run `bash beeper.sh` and use keys to generate sound:
- use keyboard keys **zxcvbnm,** to play white piano keys (notes from **c** to **b**)
- use keyboard keys **sdghj** to play on black piano keys
- play them with **Shift** keyboard key to activate sustain
- use **Up** and **Down** keyboard arrows to change octave
- use **Left** and **Right** keyboard arrows to change speed
- use keyboard keys **12345** to set note type (whole, half, quarter, eighth, sixtennth)

Use `php piano-notes-to-beeper.php <piano_notes_file_name>` to convert piano notes to beeper format and then call `bash beeper.sh <beeper_file_name>`.
Beeper file format is `TO,LS ` value separated by space, where:
- **T** is note tone from **c** to **b**
- **O** is note octave from **1** to **8**
- **L** is note length, from **1** to **16** where 1 is sixtennth (100 ms)
- **S** is sustain (optional)

Sound is generated by `beep` (Linux) or `play` (MacOS).

---

# Other

Explore other simple scripts in [other/](other/) directory.
